docs for custom metrics (#10245)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/models.rst

The ``keras`` model flavor enables logging and loading Keras models. It is available in both Python
and R clients. In R, you can save or log the model using

> `mlflow_save_model <R-api.rst#mlflow-save-model>`__ and `mlflow_log_model <R-api.rst#mlflow-log-model>`__.

Reviewer: Why is this being reverted?

Author: I think it may not be update to latest, just pushed a fix

For more information, see :py:mod:`mlflow.onnx` and `<http://onnx.ai/>`_.

> .. warning::

Reviewer: Why is this being reverted?

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the default set of metrics is insufficient, you can supply ``extra_metrics`` and ``custom_artifacts``
to :py:func:`mlflow.evaluate()` to produce extra metrics and artifacts for the model(s) that you're evaluating.

To define a extra metric, you should define a ``eval_fn`` function that takes in ``predictions``, ``targets``,

> and ``metrics`` as inputs and outputs a ``MetricValue`` object. The ``MetricValue`` class has three attributes:
> ``scores`` for per row metrics, ``aggregate_results`` a dictionary mapping metric names to their aggregate result,
> and ``justification`` is a per row justification of the values in ``scores``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and ``metrics`` as inputs and outputs a ``MetricValue`` object. 

The ``MetricValue`` class has three attributes:

* ``scores``: used for per-row metrics 
* ``aggregate_results``: a dictionary that maps metric names to their aggregate results
* ``justification``: a per-row justification of the values in ``scores``
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code block below demonstrates how to define a custom metric evaluation function:
```

.. code-block:: python
    from mlflow.metrics import MetricValue

    def my_metric_eval_fn(predictions, targets, metrics):
        scores = predictions
        mymetric = np.sum(np.abs(predictions - targets))
        return MetricValue(scores=scores, aggregate_results={"mymetric": mymetric})

Once you have defined ``eval_fn``, you should use ``make_metric()`` to wrap this ``eval_fn`` function into a metric.

> In addition to ``eval_fn``, ``make_metric()`` requires an additional parameter ``greater_is_better``. This parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to ``eval_fn``, ``make_metric()`` requires an additional parameter , ``greater_is_better``, for optimization purposes. This parameter
```

indicates whether this is a metric we want to maximize or minimize.

.. code-block:: python
    from mlflow.metrics import make_metric

    mymetric = make_metric(eval_fn=my_metric_eval_fn, greater_is_better=False)

> The extra metric allows you to either evaluate a model directly or to evaluate an output dataframe. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extra metric allows you to either evaluate a model directly, or to evaluate an output dataframe. 
```

To evaluate the model directly, you will have to provide ``mlflow.evaluate()`` either a pyfunc model
instance, a URI referring to a pyfunc model, or a callable function that takes in the data as input 
and outputs the predictions.

.. code-block:: python
    def model(x):
        return x["inputs"]

    eval_dataset = pd.DataFrame({"targets": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8], "inputs": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]})

    mlflow.evaluate(model, eval_dataset, targets="targets", extra_metrics=[mymetric])

> To directly evaluate an output dataframe, you will need not need the ``model`` parameter, but you will need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To directly evaluate an output dataframe, you can **omit** the ``model`` parameter. However, you will need
```

>  to set the ``predictions`` parameter in ``mlflow.evaluate()``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 to set the ``predictions`` parameter in ``mlflow.evaluate()`` in order to evaluate an inference output dataframe. 
```

    def model(x):
        return pd.DataFrame({"retrieved_context": x["inputs"]+1, "answer": x["inputs"]})

    eval_dataset = pd.DataFrame({"targets": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8], "inputs": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]})

    result = mlflow.evaluate(model, eval_dataset, predictions="answer", targets="targets", extra_metrics=[mymetric])

When you want to pass additional parameters to the extra metric function, you can use the ``evaluator_config``
parameter.

.. code-block:: python
    def eval_fn(predictions, targets, metrics, k):
        return MetricValue(aggregate_results={"mymetric": k*np.sum((predictions == targets))})
    weighted_mymetric = make_metric(eval_fn=eval_fn, greater_is_better=False)

    def model(x):
        return x["inputs"]

    eval_dataset = pd.DataFrame({"targets": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8], "inputs": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]})

    config = {"col_mapping": {"k": 5}}
    mlflow.evaluate(model, eval_dataset, targets="targets", extra_metrics=[weighted_mymetric], evaluator_config=config)

The following `short example from the MLflow GitHub Repository
<https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/blob/master/examples/evaluation/evaluate_with_custom_metrics.py>`_

> uses :py:func:`mlflow.evaluate()` with a extra metric function to evaluate the performance of a regressor on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
uses :py:func:`mlflow.evaluate()` with an extra metric function to evaluate the performance of a regressor on the
```

`California Housing Dataset <https://www.dcc.fc.up.pt/~ltorgo/Regression/cal_housing.html>`_.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/evaluation/evaluate_with_custom_metrics.py
    :language: python

For a more comprehensive extra metrics usage example, refer to `this example from the MLflow GitHub Repository
<https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/blob/master/examples/evaluation/evaluate_with_custom_metrics_comprehensive.py>`_.

Evaluating with a Function
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
As of MLflow 2.8.0, :py:func:`mlflow.evaluate()` supports evaluating a python function without requiring 
logging the model to MLflow. This is useful when you don't want to log the model and just want to evaluate

> it. The requirement to the function's input and output is the same as the requirement to a model's input and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it. The requirements for the function's input and output are the same as the requirements for a model's input and
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the default set of metrics is insufficient, you can supply ``extra_metrics`` and ``custom_artifacts``
to :py:func:`mlflow.evaluate()` to produce extra metrics and artifacts for the model(s) that you're evaluating.

> To define an extra metric, you should define an ``eval_fn`` function that takes in ``predictions``, ``targets``,

Reviewer 2: Can we mention what data type ``predictions`` and ``targets`` contains, and what is the content of them? For example, if the `data` is a pandas dataframe, then ``predictions`` and ``targets`` are pandas series, and the content is specified by the corresponding parameters in ``mlflow.evaluate()``. I'm not sure if predictions and targets could be other data types. Maybe you can confirm with @annzhang-db or look into the code.

and ``metrics`` as inputs and outputs a ``MetricValue`` object. 

The ``MetricValue`` class has three attributes:

> * ``scores``: used for per-row metrics 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ``scores``: contains per-row metrics 
```

> * ``aggregate_results``: a dictionary that maps metric names to their aggregate results

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ``aggregate_results``: a dictionary that maps the aggregation method names to the corresponding aggregated values.
```

> * ``justification``: a per-row justification of the values in ``scores``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ``justification``: a per-row justification of the values in ``scores``. This is optional, and is usually used with genai metrics.

```

The code block below demonstrates how to define a custom metric evaluation function:

.. code-block:: python
    from mlflow.metrics import MetricValue

>     def my_metric_eval_fn(predictions, targets, metrics):
>         scores = predictions
>         mymetric = np.sum(np.abs(predictions - targets))
>         return MetricValue(scores=scores, aggregate_results={"mymetric": mymetric})

Reviewer 2: The `scores` seems a bit confusing to me. Can we demonstrate:
```suggestion
    def abs_error_eval_fn(predictions, targets, metrics):
        scores = np.abs(predictions - targets)
        return MetricValue(scores=scores, aggregate_results={"mean": np.mean(scores),"variance": np.var(scores),"median": np.median(scores)})
```

In addition to ``eval_fn``, ``make_metric()`` requires an additional parameter , ``greater_is_better``, for optimization purposes. This parameter
indicates whether this is a metric we want to maximize or minimize.

.. code-block:: python
    from mlflow.metrics import make_metric

    mymetric = make_metric(eval_fn=my_metric_eval_fn, greater_is_better=False)

The extra metric allows you to either evaluate a model directly, or to evaluate an output dataframe. 

To evaluate the model directly, you will have to provide ``mlflow.evaluate()`` either a pyfunc model
instance, a URI referring to a pyfunc model, or a callable function that takes in the data as input 
and outputs the predictions.

.. code-block:: python
    def model(x):
        return x["inputs"]

    eval_dataset = pd.DataFrame({"targets": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8], "inputs": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]})

    mlflow.evaluate(model, eval_dataset, targets="targets", extra_metrics=[mymetric])

To directly evaluate an output dataframe, you can **omit** the ``model`` parameter. However, you will need
 to set the ``predictions`` parameter in ``mlflow.evaluate()`` in order to evaluate an inference output dataframe. 

.. code-block:: python

>     eval_dataset = pd.DataFrame({"targets": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8], "predictions": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]})

Reviewer 2: I haven't tested the case when there is no "input" column. Does it work? I would expect to get some errors if the `data` has no input column (even though no input is needed in this case). It would be awesome if it already works.

Author: yep the code I added has been tested on dogfood

    result = mlflow.evaluate(data=eval_dataset, predictions="predictions", targets="targets", extra_metrics=[mymetric])

When your model has multiple outputs, the model must return a pandas DataFrame with multiple columns. You must
specify one column among the model output columns as the predictions column using the ``predictions`` parameter,

> and other output columns of the model will be accessible from the ``eval_fn`` via col_mapping. For example, if 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and other output columns of the model will be accessible from the ``eval_fn`` via ``col_mapping``. For example, if 
```
Can you also demonstrate where and what values need to be specified with ``col_mapping``? The example on L3743 with ``col_mapping`` is not showing this case.

your model has two outputs ``retrieved_context`` and ``answer``, you can specify ``answer`` as the predictions
column, and ``retrieved_context`` column will be accessible from the ``eval_fn``:

.. code-block:: python

    def eval_fn(predictions, targets, metrics, retrieved_context):

>         return MetricValue(aggregate_results={"mymetric": np.sum(predictions == targets), "sum_of_retrieved_context": np.sum(retrieved_context)})

Reviewer 2: IIRC, the metrics name is supposed to be specified in `make_metric`, and the key in aggregate_results would be the suffix. cc @sunishsheth2009 @annzhang-db @prithvikannan To give the recommendation.

    result = mlflow.evaluate(data=eval_dataset, predictions="predictions", targets="targets", extra_metrics=[mymetric])

When your model has multiple outputs, the model must return a pandas DataFrame with multiple columns. You must
specify one column among the model output columns as the predictions column using the ``predictions`` parameter,
and other output columns of the model will be accessible from the ``eval_fn`` based on their column names. For example, if 
your model has two outputs ``retrieved_context`` and ``answer``, you can specify ``answer`` as the predictions
column, and ``retrieved_context`` column will be accessible as a parameter from ``eval_fn``:

.. code-block:: python

    def eval_fn(predictions, targets, metrics, retrieved_context):
        return MetricValue(aggregate_results={"equal": np.sum(predictions == targets), "sum_of_retrieved_context": np.sum(retrieved_context)})

    mymetric = make_metric(eval_fn=eval_fn, greater_is_better=False, name="mymetric")

    def model(x):
        return pd.DataFrame({"retrieved_context": x["inputs"]+1, "answer": x["inputs"]})

    eval_dataset = pd.DataFrame({"targets": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8], "inputs": [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]})

>     result = mlflow.evaluate(model, eval_dataset, predictions="answer", targets="targets", extra_metrics=[mymetric])

Reviewer 2: In this example, it looks like col_mapping is omitted and not needed. Can we clarify in which condition is it optional and when is it mandatory?
Besides, can we add an example where col_mapping is mandatory?

.. code-block:: python

    # Assume that the model output is saved to the pandas_df["model_output"] column
    dataset = mlflow.data.from_pandas(pandas_df, predictions="model_output")
    mlflow.evaluate(data=pandas_df, predictions=None, ...)

When your model has multiple outputs, you must specify one column among the model output columns as the predictions

> column, and other output columns of the model will be treated as "input" columns. For example, if your model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
column and other output columns of the model will be treated as "input" columns. For example, if your model
```

> has two outputs ``retrieved_context`` and ``answer``, you can specify ``answer`` as the predictions column, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has two outputs named ``retrieved_context`` and ``answer``, you can specify ``answer`` as the predictions column. The 
```

inluding ``sktime`` library, various MLflow utilities as well as the MLflow ``pyfunc`` module which
is required to add the ``pyfunc`` specification to the MLflow model configuration. Note also the
import of the ``flavor`` module itself. This will be passed to the

> :py:func:`mlflow.models.Model.log()` method to log the model as an artifact to the current Mlflow

Reviewer 2: In public documentation, I think `MLflow` is recommended, while `Mlflow` and `MLFlow` are not.

Author: I think this was changed by the autoformatter, I'll change it back
